# Access Control (ACL)

## Review

### When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

The basis Auth allow you to access the API directly with your credential : user/password, the use case for this are integration with reporting tools like PowerBI, Tableau, QLik, ...etc.

 For Bearer authorization, it is ideal when scripting, when developing external app or when doing integration with external tools.

 ### What does the JSON Web Token package do?

 the server generates a token that certifies the user identity, and sends it to the client.

The client will send the token back to the server for every subsequent request, so the server knows the request comes from a particular identity.

### What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

- Use encryption to store secrets within .git repositories.
- Use environment variables.
- Use "Secrets as a service" solutions.

## Terms

### Encryption 

is the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information's true meaning. The science of encrypting and decrypting information is called cryptography. In computing, unencrypted data is also known as plaintext, and encrypted data is called ciphertext.

### Token

 a token is a single element of a programming language. There are five categories of tokens: 1) constants, 2) identifiers, 3) operators, 4) separators, and 5) reserved words. For example, the reserved words "new" and "function" are tokens of the JavaScript language.

### Bearer
 is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources.

 ### Secret
 Secrets management refers to the tools and methods for managing digital authentication credentials (secrets), including passwords, keys, APIs, and tokens for use in applications, services, privileged accounts and other sensitive parts of the IT ecosystem.

 ### JSON Web Token

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

## Preparation Materials

### Role-based access control(RBAC)
is an approach to restricting system access to authorized users. It is used by the majority of enterprises with more than 500 employees, and can implement mandatory access control (MAC) or discretionary access control (DAC).<br>

Role-based access control (RBAC) is a policy-neutral access-control mechanism defined around roles and privileges. The components of RBAC such as role-permissions, user-role and role-role relationships make it simple to perform user assignments. A study by NIST has demonstrated that RBAC addresses many needs of commercial and government organizations.<br>
 RBAC can be used to facilitate administration of security in large organizations with hundreds of users and thousands of permissions. Although RBAC is different from MAC and DAC access control frameworks, it can enforce these policies without any complication.


 #### Comparing with ACL
RBAC differs from access control lists (ACLs), used in traditional discretionary access-control systems, in that RBAC systems assign permissions to specific operations with meaning in the organization, rather than to low-level data objects. For example, an access control list could be used for granting or denying write access to a particular system file, but it would not dictate how that file could be changed. In an RBAC-based system, an operation might be to 'create a credit account' transaction in a financial application or to 'populate a blood sugar level test' record in a medical application. <br>

The assignment of permission to perform a particular operation is meaningful, because the operations are granular with meaning within the application. RBAC has been shown to be particularly well suited to separation of duties (SoD) requirements, which ensure that two or more people must be involved in authorizing critical operations. Necessary and sufficient conditions for safety of SoD in RBAC have been analyzed. An underlying principle of SoD is that no individual should be able to effect a breach of security through dual privilege. By extension, no person may hold a role that exercises audit, control or review authority over another, concurrently held role.<br>


### 5 steps to simple role-based access control (RBAC)

  1. Inventory your systems
   Figure out what resources you have for which you need to control access, if you don't already have them listed. Examples would include an email system, customer database, contact management system, major folders on a file server, etc. <br>


1. Analyze your workforce and create roles.
   You need to group your workforce members into roles with common access needs.  Avoid the temptation to have too many roles defined. Keep them as simple and stratified as possible.

   For example, you might have a basic user role, which includes the access any employee would need, such as email and the intranet site. Another role might be a customer service rep, that would have read/write access to the customer database, and a customer database administrator, that would have full control of the customer database. <br>

1. Assign people to roles

   Now that you have a list of roles and their access rights, figure out which role(s) each employee belongs in, and set their access accordingly. 

1. Never make one-off changes

   Resist any temptation to make a one-off change for an employee with unusual needs. If you begin doing this, your RBAC system will quickly begin to unravel. Change the roles as required or add new ones when really necessary. 

1. Audit

   Periodically review your roles, the employees assigned to them, and the access permitted for each. If you discover, for example, that a role has unnecessary access to a particular system, change the role and adjust the access level for all employees in that role. 